# An email sent on 12/31/2019 to Christine Blasey Ford

Dear Professors, 

I have some inspiring good news that is going to help me cope this year: 

The [Quora digest thread](https://www.quora.com/Who-is-Jason-Zych-Why-was-he-fired-from-UIUC-years-ago) discussing (--REDACTED--) departure from UIUC was prominently featured in his namesake search results on Google for almost a year. At my last recollection, over 40,000 readers had viewed the thread. In the comments to (--REDACTED--) assertion that the man was a fabled "superstar" lecturer in CS once upon a time, I made several counter arguments to his insistence using the #MeToo tag. I believe (--REDACTED--) had this page taken down, and thus removed from his noticeably bad facing public image showing his true colors recently. I am going to let this battle drop, but I feel good about winning the war... (--REDACTED--)

I filed a police report for stalking in Atlanta against (--REDACTED--) with my good, supportive friend (--REDACTED--) and a local GATech VOICE victims advocacy counselor in early 2019. They told me that the report for (--REDACTED--) raping me in Seattle in 2014 fell under Washington State jurisdiction, and would have to be pursued via the Seattle PD. It was communicated to the VOICE counselor and myself that there was a limited one-year statute of limitations where victims can report their rapist and still expect criminal prosecution by law enforcement. I do not know who is responsible for this, but now, the following provision has been appended to Washington State law to support the victims of violent sexual assault (see [here](https://app.leg.wa.gov/RCW/default.aspx?cite=9A.04.080)):

>Social service agencies providing support to victims of sexual assault have long known that sexual assault crimes are among the most underreported of all types of crime. According to the department of justice, only two hundred thirty out of every one thousand sexual assaults are reported to police. In the wake of the recent #MeToo movement, this fact has become clear to the broader public.
>
>The statute of limitations restricts a prosecutor's ability to hold perpetrators accountable when reports of crime are delayed. There are many different reasons why victims of sexual assault delay or even choose to never report the crime that has been committed against them. Advances in the field of neurobiology have demonstrated how sexual assault trauma and trauma responses may contribute to delayed victim reporting. Sometimes the victim is in a relationship with the perpetrator - an employer, parent, teacher, or some other person with supervisory power over the victim – causing the victim to believe that further harm will come to them if they report the crime. Further, technological and scientific advances in investigation, collection, documentation, and preservation of evidence have advanced law enforcement and prosecutorial abilities to investigate and prosecute these older cases. Realizing this, policymakers across the country have reevaluated >and amended statutes of limitation to extend the allowable time to prosecute sexual assault crimes.
>
>It is generally true that the longer a victim waits to report a crime, the more difficult it will be for the case to be successfully prosecuted. However, the statute of limitations should not prohibit prosecution for these heinous offenses when there is adequate evidence. Extending or eliminating the statute of limitations in these cases is imperative to provide access to justice for victims, hold perpetrators accountable, and enhance community protection.

Prior to this, I have made two public facebook posts referencing how the brave and composed manner in which Stanford law professor Christine Blasey Ford confronted her attacker, now Supreme Court justice Kavanaugh, while many men in Congress grilled her inappropriately about details of how he had victimized her: (--REDACTED--) and [blatant Trump bashing opinionation here](https://github.com/maxieds/TheLawOfMeToo/blob/master/documents/BlatantTrumpBashingAppeal.md). 

If my inspiration by this modern day hero to confront her attacker, and the subsequent public comments I made about the once (in)famous UIUC lecturer that raped me years later in Seattle, had any small part to do with this victory, then I raise my glass of coconut tequila tonight to celebrate the new 2020. Here, here! And here's hoping to more justice and healing for victims nationwide moving forward.  
